Link: http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/president-trump-clarifies-position-fisa-tweet-expressing-surveillance/story?id=52281564 : President Trump clarifies position on FISA after tweet expressing surveillance concerns - ABC News Sections Sections Top Stories Watch U.S. International Politics ABC News Features Lifestyle Entertainment Virtual Reality Health Technology Investigative Sports Weather Shows Shows Good Morning America World News Tonight Nightline 20/20 This Week The View What Would You Do? ABC News Features Live Live Santa Barbara officials holds news update on Montecito mudslide United Launch Alliance to launch Delta IV rocket from Vandenberg Air Force Base Winter storm moving East: Radar Alpacas graze at the Stargrazer Ranch in Loveland, CO Kittens play on 'Dorm Cam' in Los Angeles Penguins chill at the Kansas City Zoo in Missouri California Academy of Sciences shark lagoon cam Barrier reef cam from the Georgia Aquarium Old Faithful Geyser in Yellowstone National Park Atlantic coast in Gloucester, Mass from the Blue Shutters Beachside Inn More Privacy Policy Your CA Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based Ads Terms of Use Contact Us Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. Search Menu Interest Successfully Added We'll notify you here with news about AlertTag Turn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? Off On Notifications Notifications For Interests: Breaking Interests See All To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up Turn on desktop notifications for breaking news? Off On Log In Video Live Shows Good Morning America Good Morning America World News Tonight World News Tonight Nightline Nightline 20/20 20/20 This Week This Week The View The View What Would You Do? What Would You Do? ABC News Features ABC News Features U.S. ABC News Features Politics International Entertainment Lifestyle Health Virtual Reality Investigative Technology Weather Sports Privacy PolicyPrivacy Policy Your CA Privacy RightsYour CA Privacy Rights Children's Online Privacy PolicyChildren's Online Privacy Policy Interest-Based AdsInterest-Based Ads Terms of UseTerms of Use Contact UsContact Us Yahoo!-ABC News Network | © 2018 ABC News Internet Ventures. All rights reserved. President Trump clarifies position on FISA after tweet expressing surveillance concerns By Alexander Mallin Close Follow on Twitter More from Alexander BENJAMIN SIEGEL Close Follow on Twitter More from Benjamin Jan 11, 2018, 1:28 PM ET 0 Shares Email Star PlayMark Wilson/Getty Images WATCH Paul Ryan defends Trump's knowledge of FISA 0 Shares Email President Donald Trump is under fire following a pair of seemingly contradictory tweets Thursday morning that thrust confusion into the debate over an intelligence program deemed critical by government national security agencies. Interested in Donald Trump? Add Donald Trump as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Donald Trump news, video, and analysis from ABC News. Donald Trump Add Interest Thursday afternoon, the White House denied the tweets were contradictory or created any confusion. The controversial Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, which authorizes the U.S. government to monitor electronic communications of suspected foreign terrorists and spies, passed the House on Thursday in a 256-164 vote, but not before the president issued the confusing statements via Twitter that drew his support for the measure into question. "This is the act that may have been used, with the help of the discredited and phony Dossier, to so badly surveil and abuse the Trump Campaign by the previous administration and others?" Trump tweeted Thursday morning. “House votes on controversial FISA ACT today.” This is the act that may have been used, with the help of the discredited and phony Dossier, to so badly surveil and abuse the Trump Campaign by the previous administration and others?— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2018 That tweet seemed to contradict a statement from the White House just 12 hours earlier that expressed clear support for the measure, — and it seemed to support a proposed amendment to reform the program that the White House had also said it didn't want. The 'USA Rights' amendment proposed by Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich. and Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., would have banned government officials from looking through Americans' data collected under FISA's '702 program' without a warrant. That amendment failed Thursday morning in a 183-233 vote. Opponents of the proposal, including House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., said the proposed change would “disable” the 702 program. The White House came out against the amendment and for re-authorization on Wednesday, though President Trump appeared to oppose the measure in a tweet Thursday morning. Trump on prospect of meeting with Mueller: 'It seems unlikely' The Note: Trump and GOP fenced in by wall, immigration Sen. Dianne Feinstein releases testimony on Trump-Russia dossier Over an hour and a half later after his first tweet on Thursday, the president sent a second tweet on the subject seeming to clarify that he supports FISA re-authorization, with potential privacy concerns addressed separately. "With that being said, I have personally directed the fix to the unmasking process since taking office and today’s vote is about foreign surveillance of foreign bad guys on foreign land," Trump wrote. "We need it! Get smart!" Trump's tweets drew criticism from a top democrats on the House and Senate intelligence committees. In a tweet Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., called Trump's initial criticism of the law "irresponsible" and "untrue," adding "FISA is something the President should have known about long before he turned on Fox this morning." Later Thursday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders sought to downplay the confusion, saying the White House “doesn’t think there was a conflict at all” between his tweeted positions. “The president fully supports the 702 and was happy to see it passed the House today but he does have some overall concern with the FISA program more generally,” Sanders said. “The president doesn't feel we should have to choose between protecting American citizens and protecting their civil liberties.” “We don't see any contradiction or confusion in that,” Sanders added. Asked about critics who suggested the string of tweets showed the president wasn’t familiar with his own administration’s policy, Sanders responded, “This is top of mind for the president and for the administration. And he has a full understanding." Questioned why the president sent a clarifying tweet almost two hours after his first, Sanders said it was intended to clear things up for the press. “We weren't confused but some of you guys were,” Sanders said. “We wanted you to make sure you knew the White House position.” Fox News did a segment on FISA Thursday morning around the same time Trump first tweeted, where he appeared to quote the broadcast. “I don't understand why Donald Trump is in favor of this,” Judge Andrew Napolitano, a Fox News senior judicial analyst, said on the network. “His woes began with unlawful foreign surveillance and unconstitutional domestic surveillance of him before he was the president of the United States and now he wants to institutionalize this. Mr. President, this is not the way to go.” With that being said, I have personally directed the fix to the unmasking process since taking office and today’s vote is about foreign surveillance of foreign bad guys on foreign land. We need it! Get smart!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2018 Following the president's first tweet, Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., appeared on Fox News where he said he spoke with the president about his own concerns surrounding FISA, and said the president indicated he would back reforms put forward by Amash and Paul himself. "The administration has voiced support for reauthorization but I think the president indicated to me that he believes that any reauthorization should have significant reforms," Paul said. Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Cali., the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said on the House floor during debate over the FISA bill that House GOP leaders should postpone consideration of the bill in light of Trump's tweets. "I do think we need more time to work on this bill and I think that was only underscored this morning by the contradictory statements coming out of the administration," he said, calling for "more time to discuss this with our members." House Speak Paul Ryan called President Trump following his first tweet of the morning, according to a source familiar with the call. "One of the most important things we are placed in charge to do is make decisions, not based on TV, not based on internet, based on facts, based on reality," Ryan said in a speech on the House floor this moring. "And we're supposed to make those decisions to keep our country safe." While they never questioned the outcome Thursday, some Republicans were frustrated by the mixed messages from the White House. "It didn't help," said Rep. Chris Stewart, R-Utah, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said of Trump's first tweet. "The conversations we've been having ... intensely for the last few days is 702. And people have been going, 'Yeah but FISA and unmasking.' And we've had to say, 'Look, they're separate.'" "702 is a very different issue," he added. "This is a very valuable tool. And I think the communication from the White House made it a little more ambiguous." 0 Shares Email Star Comments Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you. To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up » Trump clarifies position on FISA after expressing concerns +Trump on prospect of meeting with Mueller: 'It seems unlikely' +The Note: Trump and GOP fenced in by wall, immigration Greitens' ambitions could take a hit in cheating scandal Governors, lawmakers angry Florida exempted from offshore drilling expansion Trump administration to allow states to enforce work requirements for Medicaid The Note: Trump and GOP fenced in by wall, immigration Trump to get physical amid questions on health, fitness Missouri governor: I cheated on my wife State Department overhauls travel warning system for Americans abroad Feinstein responds to Trump tweet, denies she did anything 'illegal' DACA court ruling sparks outrage from WH, hope from advocates Lawmakers huddle to hammer out DACA plan 11-year-old class president wrote empathetic letter to Trump Puerto Rico fears post-Maria murder surge: 11 days, 32 slain Trump to make Iran deal decision today: Tillerson Firetruck brings boy shot in Texas church massacre home from hospital GOP struggles to woo candidates in states where Trump won ICE targets 7-Elevens nationwide as it ramps up worksite enforcement Trump on prospect of meeting with Mueller: 'It seems unlikely' In offhand comment, Trump reignites debate over congressional earmarks Memo: Kelly bans personal phones, smart watches from West Wing Trump displayed 'genius' at immigration meeting: GOP senator